QUIZ:

QUESTION:
What are the 2 types of firewall?

A.Soft and hard firewall


B.Network and host-based firewall


C.Incoming and outgoing firewall

ANSWER:
The two types of firewall are network-based firewall and host-based firewall.

Network-based firewall: This type of firewall is usually implemented at the network perimeter and 
operates by monitoring incoming and outgoing traffic to and from the network. 
It can be a hardware appliance or a software application that runs on a dedicated server.

Host-based firewall: This type of firewall is installed on individual hosts or endpoints, such as desktops or servers. 
It operates by monitoring and filtering traffic based on rules configured on the specific host.

The other classifications you mentioned, such as soft/hard firewall or incoming/outgoing firewall, 
are not commonly used to categorize firewalls.


QUESTION:
What is the main function of a firewall?


A.To filter incoming and outgoing network traffic


B.To filter outgoing traffic


C.To filter incoming and outgoing TCP traffic

ANSWER:
The main function of a firewall is to filter incoming and outgoing network traffic based on a set of predefined security rules. 
Firewalls act as a barrier between an organization's internal network and the internet or other external networks.

Firewalls examine network traffic to determine if it should be allowed to pass through to its intended destination or if it should be blocked. 
The filtering rules can be based on various criteria, such as IP addresses, protocols, ports, and packet contents.

By blocking unauthorized or malicious traffic and allowing only legitimate traffic to pass through, 
firewalls help to protect organizations from various types of cyber attacks, such as hacking, malware, and denial-of-service attacks.
They also help to prevent data breaches and protect sensitive information.


QUESTION:

What is a firewall?


A. A hardware security system


B. A software security system


C. A hardware or software security system

ANSWER:
A firewall is a security system that can be either hardware or software-based, 
which helps to protect computer networks from unauthorized access 
or malicious attacks from the internet or other external networks.

Firewalls are designed to filter network traffic and prevent unauthorized access to a network by blocking incoming traffic that does not meet 
specific security criteria, such as the type of traffic, its source and destination, and other protocol-related information. 
Firewalls can also be configured to allow specific types of traffic to pass through, based on the organization's security policies.

Hardware firewalls are physical devices that are installed between the organization's network and the internet,
 while software firewalls are installed on individual computer systems. 
Both types of firewalls can be effective in protecting a network from unauthorized access, 
and the choice between them depends on the organization's specific security needs and budget.


HOW TO GO ABOUT THE TASKS
TASK 0

Let’s install the ufw firewall and setup a few rules on web-01.
BUT FIRST CONNECT TO YOUR WEB-01 SERVER
OPEN YOUR UBUNTU 20.04 LTS SANDBOX
RUN THE FOLLOWING COMMANDS

	cd /root
	cd .ssh
	ls
	eval $('ssh-agent')
	ssh-add school
	ssh ubuntu@18.234.168.34

PLEASE NOTE:
REPLACE 18.234.168.34 with your own IP ADDRESS 

IF YOU HAVE CONNECTED SUCCESSFULLY
CARRY OUT THE FOLLOWING STEPS BELOW:

//Configure ufw so that it blocks all incoming traffic, except the following TCP ports:
	22 (SSH)
	443 (HTTPS SSL)
	80 (HTTP)

//To configure the Uncomplicated Firewall (ufw) to block all incoming traffic except 
for TCP ports 22, 443, and 80, you can follow these steps:

//Open a terminal or SSH session to the server where ufw is installed.

//Check the status of ufw to make sure it is active by running the following command:

	sudo ufw status

//If ufw is not active, you can enable it by running:

	sudo ufw enable

//Set the default outgoing policy to "allow" to allow all outgoing traffic by running the following command:
	sudo ufw default allow outgoing

//Set the default incoming policy to "deny" to block all incoming traffic by running the following command:

	sudo ufw default deny incoming

//Allow incoming traffic on TCP ports 22, 443, and 80 by running the following commands:

	sudo ufw allow 22/tcp
	
	sudo ufw allow 443/tcp
	
	sudo ufw allow 80/tcp

//Verify that the rules have been added by running the following command:

	sudo ufw show added

//This should show the three TCP ports that were allowed in the previous step.

//Finally, enable ufw by running:

	sudo ufw enable

//Your ufw configuration should now block all incoming traffic except for the TCP ports 22 (SSH), 443 (HTTPS SSL), and 80 (HTTP)
